To deploy the Enthusiast open-source AI agent on Replit, you'll need to set up a Python/Django/PostgreSQL/React stack, clone the Enthusiast repository, and configure database, environment, and API credentials. Enthusiast is self-hostable and integrates easily with MedusaJS and popular e-commerce platforms, making it ideal for developer-led customization.

Technical Prerequisites
Repository: Enthusiast is available at https://github.com/upsidelab/enthusiast.

Languages: Python, TypeScript, JavaScript, React, Django.

Database: PostgreSQL required.

Environment: Can run entirely on Replit, but make sure your Replit workspace offers enough resources for PostgreSQL and Django.

Integrations: Native MedusaJS support; can connect to other platforms by API.

Step-by-Step Setup on Replit
Import Project

Use "Import from GitHub" on Replit and paste the Enthusiast repo URL.

Configure Stack

You need to enable Replit’s PostgreSQL database or set up a remote PostgreSQL instance.

The backend runs on Python (Django framework); the frontend is React/TypeScript.

Install Dependencies

In the Replit shell, run:

text
pip install -r requirements.txt
npm install --prefix frontend
Make sure to install database adapters for Python if your Replit setup requires manual additions.

Configure Environment Variables

Copy .env.example to .env in the backend directory.

Set required values:

DATABASE_URL (your Postgres instance)

OPENAI_API_KEY or other LLM providers

Any Medusa store credentials if connecting to an e-commerce backend.

Run Database Migrations

Migrate initial schema:

text
python manage.py migrate
Start Application

Launch using:

text
python manage.py runserver
npm start --prefix frontend
Develop and Customize

Modify Python/React code as needed to fit workflow and appearance needs.

Additional Tips
Agent Configuration: You can link product catalog, set up custom product suggestion logic, and automate support responses by modifying config files and workflow scripts in the Enthusiast repo.

API Integration: Enthusiast supports OpenAI, Mistral, Llama, and Deepseek out-of-the-box for AI model connection.

Open Source License: Enthusiast is MIT licensed, so customization and redistribution are fully allowed.

MedusaJS Integration: If your stack uses Medusa, simply follow Medusa's authentication and connection guides, then configure Enthusiast by pointing to your Medusa API endpoint in the .env file.

This setup gives you a robust, developer-friendly AI agent that can power product search, suggestions, content automation, and customer support in your web app on Replit.

